
Palak Paneer (http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/aarti-sequeira/saag-paneer-spinach-with-indian-cheese-recipe.html)
------------
turmeric*1ts, cayenne_pepper*1/2ts, Kosher_salt*3ts, veg_oil*1/2ts, paneer*12oz,
spinach*16oz(frozen_chopped), white_onion*1(finely_chopped), ginger*1inch(minced), garlic*4(minced),
green_serrano_chile*1(finely_chopped), garam_masala*1/2ts, coriander*2ts(ground), cumin*1ts(ground),
yogurt*1/2cup

Paneer:
Cheesecloth, whole_milk*8cup, lemon_juice*1/4cup(fresh_squeezed)

Garam Masala:
cinnamon_sticks*3(or_cinnamon_bark_bits*3ts), ground_cloves*3ts,
green_cardamom_pods*1/4cup(shelled&husks_discarded~=seed*2ts),
optional(black_cardamom_pods(shelled&husks_discarded~=seed*1ts))

-------------------------------------------------------------------

In a large bowl, whisk together the turmeric, cayenne, 1 teaspoon salt and 3 tablespoons oil.
Gently, drop in the cubes of paneer and gently toss, taking care not to break the cubes if you're
using the homemade kind. Let the cubes marinate while you get the rest of your ingredients together
and prepped.

Thaw the spinach in the microwave in a microwave-safe dish, 5 minutes on high, then puree in a food
processor until smooth. Alternatively, you can chop it up very finely with your knife.

Place a large nonstick skillet over medium heat, and add the paneer as the pan warms. In a couple of
minutes give the pan a toss; each piece of paneer should be browned on one side. Fry another minute
or so, and then remove the paneer from the pan onto a plate.

Add the remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons oil to the pan. Add the onions, ginger, garlic and chile. Now
here's the important part: saute the mixture until it's evenly toffee-coloured, which should take
about 15 minutes. Don't skip this step - this is the foundation of the dish! If you feel like the
mixture is drying out and burning, add a couple of tablespoons of water.

Add the garam masala, coriander and cumin. If you haven't already, sprinkle a little water to keep
the spices from burning. Cook, stirring often, until the raw scent of the spices cook out, and it
all smells a bit more melodious, 3 to 5 minutes.

Add the spinach and stir well, incorporating the spiced onion mixture into the spinach. Add a little
salt and 1/2 cup of water, stir, and cook about 5 minutes with the lid off.

Turn the heat off. Add the yogurt, a little at a time to keep it from curdling. Once the yogurt is
well mixed into the spinach, add the paneer. Turn the heat back on, cover and cook until everything
is warmed through, about 5 minutes. Serve.

*Cook's Note: Paneer is very easy to make at home, and my recipe is quick, easy, and delicious. I
also think homemade has a better texture than anything store-bought. If you'd like to buy it, this
cheese is available in better supermarkets as well as specialty Asian markets.

Paneer
------
Line a large colander with a large double layer of cheesecloth, and set it in your sink.

In a large wide pot, bring the milk to a gentle boil over medium heat, stirring frequently to avoid
burning the bottom (a nonstick pot works really well for this purpose). This will take a little
while so be patient!

Add the lemon juice and turn the heat down to low. Stirring gently, you should almost immediately
see the curds (white milk solids) and whey (the greenish liquid) separate. Don't fret, this is
perfect!

*Cook's Note: If the milk doesn't separate juice some more lemons and add another tablespoon or two.
Boost the heat again and the milk should separate. Stir in a motion that gathers the curds together
rather than breaks them up.

Remove the pot from the heat and carefully pour the contents into the cheesecloth-lined colander.
Gently rinse with cool water to get rid of the lemon flavor. At this point, you could squeeze out
some of the liquid, and serve with some honey and some nuts, almost like a fresh ricotta!

Grab the ends of the cheesecloth and twist the ball of cheese to squeeze out the excess whey. Tie
the cheesecloth to your kitchen faucet and allow the cheese to drain for about 5 minutes.

Twisting the ball to compact the cheese into a block, place it on a plate with the twisted part of
the cheesecloth on the side (this will ensure your block of cheese is nice and smooth!) and set
another plate on top. Weigh the second plate down with cans of beans or a heavy pot. Move to the
refrigerator and let it sit about 20 minutes.

Yield: Makes 12 ounces of cheese.

Garam Masala
---------------
Combine the cinnamon sticks, cloves, green cardamom seeds, black cardamom seeds, if using into a
spice grinder or coffee grinder and grind until fine. Store the spice mix in an airtight container
away from direct sunlight.

Yield: about 1/2 cup.


